***• Git Basics Command***

• ```git init``` - The main purpose of the ```git init``` command is to initialize the new working environment or a new git repository to work on a new project. Before performing the git init command git will not track the files, after git init it will start working to track and we can push the file into github repository.

• ```git clone``` - to copy the file from the git repository we can use the git clone command. ```git clone <https://github.com/user-name/repo-name>```

• ```git branch -m branch_name``` - by default branch will create having name ‘master’, we can renew that branch name with below command.

• ```git status``` - now you can make file and check/track status. if file name showing in red means it will be in working/edit directory, in green colour means in stage area.

• ```git rm --cached file_name``` - to make it again unstaged or in working directory.

• ```git restore file_name``` - to discard changes in working directory.

• ```git commit -m “type relevant message”``` - to commit into from staging to local repository.

• ```git commit --amend -m “to change commit message”``` - to change the commit message.

• ```git log``` / ```git log --oneline``` - to check logs for the commited file.project.

• ```git show <commit_id>``` - to show the details about the specific commit id.

• ```git diff``` - to see the existing chages of the file.

• ```git checkout <filename>``` - to reverse the changes before commit, first we must make it unstaged.

• ```git checkout <commit-id> <filename>``` - revert file by old one, commit id should be the previous version. After the checkout we must commit again to move file from stage to LR, used for discard changes.


***• git config***

• ```git config --global user.name "abc"``` - to add user name

• ```git config --global user.mail "abc@gmail.com``` - to add user mail id

• ```git config --list``` - to list data under config file.

•  ```git config edit``` - to edit the config file


***• git comand with github***

• ```git remote add origin https://github.com/user-name/repo-name``` - to add the github repository into the git VM. ```origin``` is names are local aliases that represent URLs of remote repositories. (you can give stg, dev, prd)

• ```git remote -v``` - used to list the names and URLs of the remotes associated with your local Git repository.

• ```git push origin master`` - to push the chnages into the github repository. after given above push command need to give username and password, for password we must create the token from GitHub.

• ```git pull origin master``` - to pull the files from the github repository.

• ```git remote rm origin``` - to delete the remote name from the git VM.






