## Steps To Merge a Branch

***Step 1: Creating a new branch.***

- Create a new branch from the remote repository branch which you want to merge. If errors are faced while merging we can go back to the previous version immediately.

***Step 2: Make sure always latest changes are pulled.***

- Always make sure before merging the latest changes that the latest changes are pulled from both branches like the master and the branch you want to merge.

***Step 3: Resolving the merge conflicts.***

- While merging the branches it is possible that some merge conflicts will be raised then git will prompt you to resolve the merge conflicts. If any merge conflicts are not raised then git will automatically merge the branches. 

***Step 4: Merged code needs to be tested.***

- It is essential to test the merged code and we have to make sure that the code doesn’t have any bugs and it is working properly. To test the code we do it automatically or manually.

***Step 5: Commit the merged code.***

- Once completing of merging the code if you are satisfied with the work, Know it’s time to commit the new changes of code into the new branch.

***Step 6: Push the merged branch.***

- Lastly, make the new branch accessible to other team members by pushing it to the repository.


 - In conclusion, pulling the most recent changes, resolving conflicts, testing the merged code, committing the changes, and pushing the new branch are the essential phases in the Git merge preparation process. The merging procedure in Git can be streamlined and effective with careful planning and attention to detail.



## Git merge 
- Git merge will help to combine the changes from two or more branches into a single branch. Developers will work on different branches to improve code or to develop the code after completion we can merge them into a single version of the code


## 1. Merge: 
- Creates a new merge commit, maintaining the original branch history.

```git merge dev``` (execute from the master branch)

-	Merge preserves the commit history of each feature branch.
-	It retains a clear indication of when each feature was integrated into the shared branch.

## 2. Rebase: 
- Moves the entire feature branch to start from the tip of main, rewriting the commit history.
  
```git rebase dev```

-	integrate changes from one branch onto another by rewriting commit history.
-	It rewrites your commit history by placing your changes on top of the updated main branch, avoiding unnecessary merge commits.
-	Results in a cleaner, linear history on your feature branch before merging into the main branch.


***main difference between the git merge and git rebase***

-	Use merge for shared/public branches to preserve history.
-	Use rebase for private/local branches to maintain a cleaner, linear history.
